the effect of the turning tide can be
totally different on a rocky shore here
on the coast of Vancouver Island in
Canada the Sun bakes the exposed rock
it's virtually impossible to dig
underground when the sea retreats
so these mussels and barnacles are fully
exposed to the heat of the Sun literally
cooking in their own shells and the
seaweed simply dry to a crisp
it can be a weight of many eyes before
the water returns throughout each month
the size and strength of the tide
changes the biggest part of all happen
when the gravities of the Sun and Moon
pull in unison that happens immediately
after the new moon
and the game after the full
these are called the spring time they
revealed vast tracts of seabed that
would normally be covered for these
raccoons it's a chance to look for a
seafood feast the mother ventures forth
with her kids with the spring tide
they've come further down the beats and
smaller tides would normally allow
searching was there extraordinarily
sensitive pause they look for suitable
prey with the extreme low tide they
could find something special
and what could be better than a Red
Rocks crab that is if it weren't for the
risk of a painful pinch with large crabs
there's no substitute for experience the
mother makes an expert's catch but the
kids learn fast
and for those that don't begging is
always worth a try
all too soon the returning tide will
cover the raccoons table for all in
vertebrates it's a welcome relief but in
rough weather they are exposed to the
worst of the way
[Music]